# Project brainstorming, pitch, and feedback

For the [course project](README.md) for [CL1 Fall 2019](https://github.com/hal3/cl1f19umd), the first deliverable is a project pitch together with feedback on other project pitches. In this part of the project, you will:
#* Prepare a short presentation to give in class
#* Get feedback from classmates and offer feedback to others
#* Improve your project based on that feedback
* Prepare a one slide two minutes presentation, answering what and how
* Prepare a one page pdf project description to answer four key questions
* Submit both your one slide presentation and one page project description by noon on the day of pitches in class

## Teaming

The first thing you need to do is find a team. We help facilitate this by giving time at the end of class and allowing discussion on the message board. Try to find a team by the beginning of class on 15 Oct.

## Presentation and Initial Writeup (40%)

On 22 Oct, we will spend class time doing project pitches. Each team will give a 2 minute presentation. Please note that minutes go by very quickly when speaking---if you want to hit this, you will need to rehearse. Your presentation can be structured however you like, but should be sure to cover the following points (modified from the [Heilmeier Catechism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_H._Heilmeier#Heilmeier's_Catechism), a good resource to go back to every time you're writing a proposal):
* What are you trying to do?
* How will you solve it?

Your presentation slides should be designed with [accessibility in mind](https://github.com/hcorona/diversity-inclusion/blob/master/accesible-presentations.md), and both the slides and presentation itself should endeavor to use [inclusive](https://github.com/hcorona/diversity-inclusion/blob/master/inclusive-language-presentations.md) [language](https://lgbt.umd.edu/good-practices-inclusive-language).

You will need to upload slides in *PDF* format before class. You may start from [this template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tajxF6vJv-IgpPvkDF59B1v1SwtoiCEFvLl6i-tGZ-U/edit?usp=sharing) if you wish (but feel free not to). We highly recommend using figures and examples where possible.

You must also write a *one page* document project proposal, handed in at the same time. This should answer the above two questions *as well as* two more:
* If you're successful, what difference will it make?
* How will you evaluate success?

## Feedback to Other Groups (25%)

You are expected to give feedback on *five* project pitches (this includes both the presentation *and* the one page document). We will assign three of these to you randomly (to ensure everyone gets feedback), and you may choose two other proposals to give feedback to other than those. For instance, you may choose ones where you think your background or knowledge may have something useful to add, or ones that you just think sound particularly interesting. (You're more than welcome to provide feedback on more than five; this will count toward your "participation" grade.)

Your feedback should hit on all of the four questions above. In particular, you will be asked to rephrase the goal of the project, the proposed solution, the proposed evaluation, and why the project is important.

In general, remember that we're all learning, and the goal is to be useful, constructive, and kind. (And please remember the course [anti-harassment policy](https://github.com/hal3/cl1f19umd#class-policies).) Doing proposal presentations is difficult and can be scary. It often much easier when you have results you know and are confident in to present them. In contrast, I (Hal) often find that talking about proposed work is a bit terrifying because you don't yet know if it'll work out. But not knowing is the point, and getting practice at this skill is important.

## Final Write-up (35%)

Finally, you should use the feedback you receive to refine your ideas and plans, and update (if needed) your goals.

You must provide an update to your initial written project, *two* pages maximum (you get one more page), including figures, references, etc.) that addresses four above questions. You should also include a section that summarizes the comments from the peer feedback. This is due at the same time as P2, but if you hand it in earlier, we can (try to) provide feedback earlier. Do not feel obligated to do a full literature survey yet (you'll do that later); focus mostly on your goals here.

As with your presentation, your writeup should follow the accessibility guidelines (as appropriate) and should endeavor to use inclusive language.

## Grading

Your presentation will be graded in terms of how clearly you answer the questions, and how well prepared the team is (including keeping to the allotted time).

Your peer feedback will be graded (5% per piece of feedback) in terms of how clear your descriptions are with respect to the presentation, how well you are able to point out strengths of the project as well as places for improvement.

Your write-up will be graded in terms of how clearly you answer the full set of questions, whether the scope is appropriate, and whether you have a reasonable plan going forward.
