# Description of proposed approach and measures of success

For the [course project](README.md) for [CL1 Fall 2019](https://github.com/hal3/cl1f19umd), the third deliverable is a description of the problem and a proposed approach, together with proposed measures and metrics of success.

You have already written a project description (P1) and survey of related work (P2). Now is the time to get more specific about what you will do.

## Part A: Research Question (25%)

You *must* specify a research question. What do you wish to investigate in this work. What is the one thing that, at the end of the semester, you will have evidence for. Writing a good research question is hard; if you're unsure, feel free to list two (or at most three), but they must be brief: at most three sentences each, but preferably only one.

## Part B: Proposed Approach (50%)

Building on the related work you discuss in P2, you must describe your approach. This is the time to be *specific*. By reading this document, I should have a good idea of what you will spend the next ~1 month doing. Pseudo-code is good. Figures are good. Data pipelines are good. Don't feel like you must have all of these, just ones that make sense for your project. This part of the writeup should be a maximum of 1000 words (roughly two pages) plus whatever figures you need.

If you like, you are welcome to give some alternatives (e.g., we'll do X or Y or Z), in which case we will try to provide feedback on which is perhaps most likely to succeed. If you do this, feel free to rank the alternatives.

## Part C: Proposed Evaluation and Baselines (25%)

How will you measure success? Write a maximum of 500 words (roughly one page) on what measures/metrics you will use to evaluate. These can be quantitative or qualitative. They can be intrinsic or extrinsic. The most important thing is that they *connect back to the research question from Part A*. A good evaluate is one in which you can achieve an answer to the question you asked. This may involve doing ablation studies, comparing systems to each other, or running human studies.

Be sure to include baselines, as applicable, if they are important for answering the research question(s) you posed above.

And if you need resources (computational, crowdsourcing, etc.) to do this evaluation, please mention it here.
