# Final write-up and presentation

For the [course project](README.md) for [CL1 Fall 2019](https://github.com/hal3/cl1f19umd), the final deliverable is a write-up and presentation.

## Write-up (50%)

Your write-up should be 4-6 pages, in [ACL 2020 format](https://acl2020.org/calls/papers/). In general, the length should be commensurate with your team size. Teams of fewer than four people should aim for 4 pages, four to six people 5 pages, and over six people 6 pages. (You can go over this a bit, but please not by much.) And note that references do not count for pages (have as many pages of references as you like).

Your write-up should be *self-contained*. Feel free to re-use text from previous P# handins, but do not assume that we have read or remember them.

You should structure this very similarly to how you would structure a paper. Abstract, intro, related work, problem definition, methods, experimental results, discussion. (That would be a default structure; feel free to adjust as makes sense in your setting.)

Your write-up will be judged on the following criteria:
1. Is the problem and approach clearly stated? (10%)
1. Is the approach appropriate for the task? (10%)
1. Do the results make sense (vs being internally inconsistent)? If so, is this explained? (10%)
1. Is related work appropriately referenced and described? (10%)
1. Is there an analysis of the results that answers specific research questions? (10%)

## Poster (30%)

Your poster should be 48" tall by 36" wide (*wide format* **not** tall format). A0 paper is a good choice. Instructions for printing will be posted to ELMS.

Your poster should cover the same material as the write-up, but at a slightly higher level, with more of a focus on intuition than on technical details. There should still be enough detail to understand what you did, but it's okay to eschew some low level things. Your poster will be graded on the same criteria as the write-up, but at 6% each (rather than 10%).

## Presentation (20%)

There will be ~18 posters and two hours, meaning that Hal will have about 6 minutes per poster. You should have a 3-4 minute "elevator pitch" that explains what your poster is about, and then be able to answer questions.
